# Hungarian Officers
This repository contains data and R scripts for a study of the tenure of barons in office in medieval Hungary. The study engages with the theory articulated by Elemér Mályusz and Pál Engel, which posits a direct link between castle ownership and political power. According to this established view, the history of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary is divided into two distinct periods: one characterized by predominantly royal control over castles, and the other by predominantly aristocratic control. These phases are thought to correspond to periods of strong and weak royal authority and to reflect the gradual weakening of the state, culminating in its collapse at the beginning of the sixteenth century. Using proportional hazards event-history models, this study examines the effects of castle ownership and administrative structures on tenure in baronial offices and the royal council. The findings show no evidence that castles alone significantly extended tenure or alleviated dismissal risk. Instead, they point to a more complex interplay of political and social factors, including but not limited to castle ownership, lending support to the critique of the traditional narrative put forward by Tamás Pálosfalvi in 'Monarchia vagy rendi állam? Gondolatok a késő középkori magyar állam jellegéről', _Századok_ 154 (2020): 135-182.

## Contact
 For any questions or further discussions, please contact Davor Salihović at [davor.salihovic@gmail.com] or [davor.salihovic@uantwerpen.be].
